# nanowireGrowth

Screenshots and analysis images are in "img" folder.

## Usage

A basic web application with no server component; just open index.html in your browser!

Note that if you are using a browser (e.g. Chrome) with tighter security settings, you may have to launch a simple web server in order to run this static webpage.  I would recommend using either npm's http-server or Python from the project's directory (running bootstrap.sjs with --server will attempt to use http-server, or give a helpful error message):

    $ http-server -p 8080

or

    $ python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8080

> Powered by [SeriousJs](https://github.com/wwoods/seriousjs)

## Description

Contains three main source files:

* grid.sjs - Actual Cellular Automata update and stats calculation code
* analyze.sjs - Run trials of different algorithms to compare statistics
* index.sjs - Client code for displaying Cellular Automata grids, connectivity,
    etc.

## Algorithms

### Cell states

* EMPTY - Represents a cell with no wire content
* SEED - Represents a "seed" cell out of which nanowires grow
* NANO - Represents a cell populated with nanowire
* DEAD - Context dependent; either a cell that inhibits growth around it
    (for METHOD_ONE) or a cell that is the tip of a growing nanowire
    (for METHOD_THREE).

### Update methods

Note that METHOD_TWO is the best.

#### FILL

Neighborhood: None.

If any cell is not in the SEED state, it immediately becomes the NANO state.


#### METHOD_ONE

Neighborhood: Moore (immediately adjacent neighbors including diagonals)

Only EMPTY cells are updated.  Neighbors are counted into three buckets: SEED,
NANO, and DEAD.  Non-DEAD neighbors, if they align with the current cell on
either the X, Y, or Z axis, will populate a "poles" array.  In other words, if
poles[x] == 2, then the current cell, when populated, would form a straight line
of wire on the X axis with its two neighbors.

Update rules:

* If there is exactly one neighbor to the current EMPTY cell, and it is a SEED,
  then the current cell has a 1 / 52 chance of being populated with NANO.

* If there are 3 or less neighbors (including poles), and one of the poles is
  populated (that is, the current cell would complete a linear wire segment
  aligned with the X, Y, or Z axis), then the current cell is populated with
  NANO.

* If there is exactly 1 populated neighbor, and it is not dead, the current cell
  has a 0.9/52 chance of being populated with NANO.  It has a 0.1/52 chance of
  being populated with DEAD.

#### METHOD_TWO

Neighborhood: 2D Moore neighborhood; 3D Moore minus four.  That is, in 3D space,
the 3-dimensional corners are not included.  Essentially, the neighborhood is
the union of all 3 axis-aligned 2D moore neighborhood planes.

Building on the "poles" concept from above, consider all 20 non-pole aligned
neighbors (there are 6 that are part of poles).  These are "inhibiting" if they
are not EMPTY.

Update rules:

* If there is a SEED in a pole position, current cell becomes NANO.

* If there is one non-EMPTY in a pole position, and there are no inhibitors,
  current cell becomes NANO with 50% chance.  This accomplishes linear growth
  out of wires.

* If there is one non-EMPTY in a pole position, exactly 1 inhibitor, and this
  cell is not on the border of the world, then there is a 0.5% chance this
  cell will become NANO.  This accomplishes "turning" for wire tips.

* If any pole pair is complete (both axis-aligned neighbors on either side are
  non-EMPTY) and there are fewer than 4 inhibitors, current cell becomes NANO.
  This connects non-parallel wires.

#### METHOD_THREE

Neighborhood: Identical to METHOD_TWO neighborhood.

DEAD is used to indicate a growing tip of a nanowire.  If the current cell is
DEAD, it becomes NANO.  Otherwise, only EMPTY cells update.

Update rules:

* In addition to the pole logic in METHOD_ONE and METHOD_TWO, a completed pole
  in METHOD_THREE requires one neighbor to be NANO and the other DEAD.  Two DEAD
  or two NANO neighbors aligned in a pole will not create a connection.  If a pole
  is complete in this fashion, then current cell will be populated with NANO.

* If any of the pole neighbors are SEED, current cell becomes DEAD.

* If exactly one pole neighbors is DEAD, and there are no inhibitors, current
  cell becomes DEAD.

* If exactly one pole neighbor is DEAD, and there is exactly 1 inhibitor,
  current cell becomes DEAD with 10% chance.


## Analysis

See "img" folder for stats10x10.pdf and stats20x20.pdf, which display graphs
based on "output" file generated by analyze.sjs for 10x10(x10) and 20x20(x20)
graphs.

See "img" folder for screenshots.pdf as well, which shows application features.

Analysis based on 10x10 and 20x20 grid sizes, both 2D and 3D.  It is 
undesirable that any of the seed nodes would be unreachable by all other seed
nodes in the network.  This could correspond to functionality that has been
broken due to defects in the growth process.  Note that diagonally touching
cells count as connected to one another.

In all algorithms, the likelihood of a fully connected chip increases as the
number of seed points increases.  In a 10x10 grid, all except METHOD_ONE have
great connectivity with 8 seeds.  Manual inspection shows that a lot of 
METHOD_ONE's issues come from not being able to bridge the following 
configuration:

=====
=X  =
=  X=
=   =
=====

That is, the current cell would need to be populated to connect two separate
networks, but the neighbors are not both part of the same pole.

The other methods do not tend to get into this situation as often, as they
do not grow diagonally, only growing aligned with the x, y, and z axes.  A large 
part of the reason that the other methods do not perform as well as METHOD_ONE 
with only two seeds is that the other methods all have a "turn" mechanism which 
is probabilistic.  In a small grid (especially 3d), there are fewer chances for 
turning, meaning that it is less likely that the traces from each seed point
will meet.  Since METHOD_ONE grows diagonally in addition to linearly, it does
not have this problem.  Put another way, it "turns" much more frequently.

The problems with METHOD_ONE can be seen in the "Fill" graphs, which show
the percentage of possible space filled with nanowires by each algorithm.  This
is where METHOD_TWO and to a lesser extent METHOD_THREE do well.  Less space
used might translate to lower costs and less raw material, as more seed 
configurations may be completed from the same amount of nanowire.  They are 
also more efficient in terms of limiting the number of "spurs," or wires unused
by any shortest paths between two seed points.  See the third row of figures,
"Wire Usage," for this.  
